I want to explore something that the Watchtower states about today's text.
It says that the meetings never overlook the powerful effect you can have on others by
raising your hand and offering up building comments.
Now how does the day's text support that statement?
Well, let's open up to Proverbs 1523 and read the entire verse.
Proverbs 1523.
It says, a man rejoices in giving the right answer.
And a word spoken at the right time, how good it is.
And who of us has not had our faith built up and strengthened by a sincere, heartfelt
comment made by a brother or sister during a congregation meeting?
Whether it was the wise expressions of an older person with decades of experience in the
truth, the timid but sincere answer of a shy or new one in the truth,
or those simple, honest words of a young child.
All these individuals are doing just with the Psalmist David love doing.
If you look at Psalm 22, verse 22, Psalm 22 and 22, he said to Jehovah,
I will declare your name to my brothers.
In the midst of the congregation, I will praise you.
And it is true that one way to praise Jehovah is by commenting during our Christian
meetings, giving voice to our Bible-based beliefs.
From my experience in the congregations that I've been with, I've seen those who are
always engaged in every meeting.
They love to comment.
They'll give several comments in the Watchtower study, congregation Bible study, and
another meeting participation parts in the midweek meeting.
There are others who comment, but not so often, not so regularly.
They may give one comment at most meetings.
And then there are some who it seems rarely if ever comment.
They're satisfied to let the rest of the congregation carry the discussion.
Which are you?
Well, I think we can safely say that if David were alive today in our congregations, he
surely would be one of those who participates often at every meeting.
And we should understand that this matter of commenting at meetings is very important.
We can say that because of what the Apostle Paul wrote at Hebrews chapter 13.
Hebrews 13, and it's verse 15, he said through him that is Christ, let us always offer to
God a sacrifice of praise.
That is the fruit of our lips that make public declaration to his name.
Now, of course, one way we can do that is by preaching the good news of the kingdom
to anyone who will listen to us.
But another way to do this is by making expressions of our faith and hope at the meetings in front
of our brothers.
Now when writing specifically about congregation meetings, remember what Paul wrote at Hebrews
chapter 10, starting with verse 23, let us hold firmly the public declaration of our
hope without wavering for the one who promised his faithful and let us consider one another.
So as to incite to love and find works, not forsaking our meeting together.
And participating in the meetings gives us a wonderful opportunity to continue offering
a sacrifice of praise, making our public declarations to Jehovah.
And I think I can speak for every brother who conducts a meeting that we love to hear
as many different individuals as possible participate.
Although if you are one in the audience who finds it challenging to offer a comment, what
can help you?
Well, the January 2019 issue of the watch tower has a study article entitled Praise Jehovah
in the Congregation.
And here's what the preview paragraph says.
Like the Psalmist David, all of us love Jehovah and enjoy praising him.
We have a special opportunity to express our love for God when we meet with our congregation
for worship.
Some of us, however, find it difficult to comment at our meetings.
If you face that challenge, this article can help you identify your fears and work on
overcoming them.
And the article does offer practical suggestions on how to prepare for and participate in the
meetings.
For example, it has a box, what can I comment on, and I'd like to illustrate the first three
bullet points.
The direct answer to the question, a secondary point in the paragraph, and what
a sighted scripture teaches.
And we can use a paragraph in the article to illustrate this.
The paragraph is under the caption coping with fear and the aid question asks, what fear
do many of us have?
Well, the paragraph begins, do you get a knot in your stomach each time you even think
of raising your hand to comment?
If so, you are not alone.
The truth is that most of us feel some fear when we comment.
So what fear do many of us have?
A simple direct answer to the question is, most of us feel some fear when we comment.
But now there is a secondary point in the paragraph that could be commented on.
It continues, before you can cope with this crippling feeling, you need to identify the
cause of your fear.
Are you afraid that you will forget what you want to say, or that you will say the
wrong thing?
Do you worry that your comment will not be as good as the comments of others?
The big question is, why might having a fear of answering be a good sign?
And the paragraph provides the answer.
Actually those fears can be a good sign.
They indicate that you are humble and view others as superior to you, Jehovah loves that
quality.
Now, if you want to go to another level in your commenting, explain what a cited scripture
teaches.
And notice in this paragraph, there are three scriptures.
They are, Psalm 138.6, the point of which is that Jehovah takes note of the humble.
Philippians 2.3, that with humility, we consider others superior to us.
And first, Thessalonians 5.11, to keep encouraging one another and building one another up.
And any one of those verses would make a basis for a good, additional comment.
So in this one paragraph, we've isolated some meaningful comments that could be made,
and how everyone would rejoice, either in being able to give the comment or in hearing
someone else present it.
And of course, when we prepare well for the meetings, then we feel more confident about
commenting.
If you are a watchtower study conductor, what would you do if you see a significant point
in the paragraph that had not been commented on?
Well, that depends on whether you liken yourself to the sportscaster at a baseball game or
to the pitcher on the mound.
Why do we say that?
Well, a sportscaster gives a play-by-play commentary on what's going on during the game.
But that is not the role of a watchtower study conductor to talk excessively, to comment
on every missed point in the article, to rephrase the comments that were already made, or to
sum up each paragraph.
No.
Because all that may do is stifle audience participation, because it makes a friends
feel that their comments were not good enough to please the conductor.
Instead, if there's something important that was missed, the conductor who was on the
mound, the platform, can just pitch a question to the audience.
For example, in this paragraph, the last sentence is significant.
For a says of Jehovah, he loves you, and will give you the courage you need.
So if no one commented on that point, the conductor might just ask, what would Jehovah
do for you if you are fearful of commenting at the meetings?
And then he can let someone in the audience have the joy of answering.
Now, if you are a person who gets anxious about participating at the meetings and holds
back, please take to heart how David felt about making his sacrifice of praise among
his brothers.
Let's turn to Psalm number 40, Psalm 40, and it's verses 9 and 10.
He said, I proclaim the good news of righteousness in the great congregation.
Look, I do not restrain my lips.
Oh, Jehovah, as you well know, I do not cover over your righteousness in my heart.
I declare your faithfulness in salvation.
I do not hide your loyal love and your truth in the great congregation.
So let's be the sword who will uncover what is in our heart and give a full expression
of our faith to Jehovah's praise and for the encouragement of our congregation.